Luke Skywalker - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
		Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Search
Search
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
		Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Creation and development
2Appearances
Toggle Appearances subsection
2.1Films
2.1.1A New Hope (1977)
2.1.2The Empire Strikes Back (1980)
2.1.3Return of the Jedi (1983)
2.1.4Prequel trilogy
2.1.4.1Revenge of the Sith (2005)
2.1.5Sequel trilogy
2.1.5.1The Force Awakens (2015)
2.1.5.2The Last Jedi (2017)
2.1.5.3The Rise of Skywalker (2019)
2.2Television series
2.3Literature
2.4Legends
2.4.1Novels
2.4.1.1Luke Skywalker and the Shadows of Mindor
2.4.2Comic books
3Characterization
Toggle Characterization subsection
3.1Psychoanalytic
3.2Religious
4Reception
5See also
6Notes
7References
Toggle References subsection
7.1Works cited
8Further reading
9External links
Toggle the table of contents
Luke Skywalker
56 languages
العربيةAzərbaycancaБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGalego한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийScotsShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việtייִדיש中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
		Actions
ReadView sourceView history
		General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR codeWikidata item
		Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Character in Star Wars
This article is about the Star Wars character. For the rapper Luke Skyywalker, see Uncle Luke. For the Skulduggery Pleasant character, see Luke Skywalker (Skulduggery Pleasant).
Fictional character
Luke SkywalkerStar Wars characterMark Hamill as Luke Skywalker in Return of the Jedi (top) and The Last JediFirst appearanceStar Wars (1977)Created byGeorge LucasPortrayed by
Mark Hamill
Grant Feely
Aidan Barton
Voiced byVarious [a]In-universe informationFull nameLuke SkywalkerSpeciesHumanGenderMaleOccupation
Moisture farmer
Jedi Apprentice
Jedi Knight
Affiliation
Rebel Alliance
Jedi Order
New Republic
New Jedi Order
Resistance
Family
Anakin Skywalker (father)
Padmé Amidala (mother)
Leia Organa Solo (sister)
Ben Solo (nephew)
Owen Lars (guardian)
Beru Lars (guardian)
MastersObi-Wan KenobiYodaApprenticesLeia Organa SoloBen SoloGroguReyHomeworldTatooine
Luke Skywalker is a character in the Star Wars franchise created by George Lucas. He is the protagonist of the original film trilogy, and also appears in the sequel trilogy. Raised as a farmer on the fictional planet Tatooine, Luke joins the Rebel Alliance and becomes a pivotal figure in the struggle against the Galactic Empire. He trains as a Jedi under Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda, and eventually confronts his father, the Sith Lord Darth Vader. Years later, Luke trains his nephew Ben Solo and mentors the scavenger Rey. Luke is the twin brother of Leia Organa Solo.
The character is portrayed by Mark Hamill in all six films and in the series The Mandalorian and The Book of Boba Fett. Luke also appears in animated series, novels, comics, and video games.
Creation and development
George Lucas considered various characterizations for the protagonist of the original Star Wars film.[b] The possibilities included a 60-year-old grizzled war hero, a Jedi Master, a dwarf, and a woman.[1][2] Luke's original surname was "Starkiller", and it remained in the script until a few months into filming. It was dropped due to what Lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with Charles Manson, who became a "star killer" in 1969 when he murdered the well-known actress Sharon Tate.[3][4] Lucas replaced the problematic name "Starkiller" with "Skywalker".[5]
Hamill was injured in a car crash in January 1977, fracturing his nose and cheekbone.[6] Lucas justified the slight change to Hamill's likeness this would impose upon the sequel film, The Empire Strikes Back (1980), by asserting that in the interim between the two films, Luke had been fighting for the Rebel Alliance. It was speculated that the Wampa attack at the beginning of The Empire Strikes Back was written in to explain his facial injuries, but George Lucas specifically disputed this in the DVD commentary of the film.[7]
Appearances
Films
A New Hope (1977)
Main article: Star Wars (film)
In a deleted scene preceding the character's first appearance in the film (preserved in the film's radio dramatization),[8] Luke says goodbye to his best friend Biggs Darklighter, who has just joined the Imperial Academy.[9]
In the original 1977 film (later having the extended title, A New Hope), Luke lives at a moisture farm on the desert planet of Tatooine with his uncle Owen and aunt Beru. Luke takes his first steps toward his destiny when he purchases the droids C-3PO and R2-D2. While examining R2-D2, he sees a message from Princess Leia Organa of Alderaan. When R2-D2 goes missing, Luke goes out to search for the droid, and is saved from a band of Tusken Raiders by Obi-Wan Kenobi, an old hermit. Luke and Obi-Wan retreat to the latter's home, and R2-D2 plays the full message for Obi-Wan from Leia, beseeching him to help her defeat the Galactic Empire. Obi-Wan says that he and Luke's father were once Jedi Knights, and that his father was murdered by a traitorous Jedi named Darth Vader. Obi-Wan presents Luke with his father's lightsaber and offers to take him to Alderaan and train him in the ways of the Force, but Luke declines his offer, feeling obligated to his family's farm.
Luke changes his mind when he returns home to find out that Imperial stormtroopers have raided the moisture farm, killing his aunt and uncle. He and Obi-Wan then travel to Mos Eisley, where they meet smugglers Han Solo and Chewbacca at a cantina. They team up and travel on the Millennium Falcon to Alderaan, only to find out that it has been destroyed by the Death Star, the Empire's battle station. The Falcon is brought into the Death Star's hangar bay via tractor beam, where Luke and Han disguise themselves as stormtroopers and infiltrate the station. When they discover Princess Leia is there, Luke persuades a reluctant Han and Chewbacca to help rescue her. Obi-Wan deactivates the tractor beam, and he later sacrifices his life in a duel with Vader, so that Luke and his friends can board the Falcon and escape.
During the Battle of Yavin, Luke joins the Rebel Alliance in attacking the Death Star. In the trench leading to the Death Star's exhaust port, Luke hears Obi-Wan's voice, telling him to "trust his feelings"; he takes Obi-Wan's advice and switches off his X-wing's missile guidance system, instead using the Force to guide the missiles and destroy the Death Star. In the film's final scene, he joins Han and Chewbacca in receiving a medal of honor for his heroism.
The Empire Strikes Back (1980)
Mark Hamill in 1980
Main article: The Empire Strikes Back
Three years after the destruction of the Death Star, Luke is now the commander of the Rebel Alliance's Rogue Squadron.[10] While on a mission on the ice planet Hoth, he is captured by a wampa, but manages to escape using his lightsaber. In the frozen wasteland, he sees Obi-Wan's Force spirit, who tells him to travel to the planet Dagobah and complete his training with the Jedi Master Yoda. Luke collapses but is later rescued by Han. When the Empire discovers the Rebel base on Hoth, Luke leads his squadron of snowspeeders to battle the enemy's AT-ATs, but he is forced to retreat when his wingmen are overwhelmed. Escaping in his X-wing, he travels to Dagobah and meets Yoda. He undergoes rigorous Jedi training, quickly increasing his power in the Force.
During his training, Luke sees a vision of his friends in danger. Against both Obi-Wan and Yoda's advice to stay and complete his training, he travels to Bespin to save them, unwittingly falling into a trap set by Vader. He engages in a lightsaber duel with Vader. As his mentors warned, Luke proves to be no match for Vader; the Sith Lord easily overpowers Luke and severs his right hand. Vader then reveals that he is Luke's father, and offers him the chance to turn to the dark side of the Force and rule the galaxy at his side. Resolving that he would rather die than become an agent of evil, Luke throws himself into a deep reactor chasm. He survives, but is pulled into a garbage chute to the underside of Cloud City, and left hanging perilously onto a vane rod. Leia, flying away from Cloud City in the Millennium Falcon, senses Luke's call out to her with the Force, and turns the ship around to save him. Aboard the ship, he hears Vader telepathically telling him that it is his destiny to join the dark side. Luke's severed hand is replaced with a bio-mechanical one.
Return of the Jedi (1983)
Main article: Return of the Jedi
One year later, Luke is a Jedi Knight,[11] and has constructed his own lightsaber.[c] He returns to Tatooine with Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, and Lando Calrissian to save Han, frozen in carbonite, from the crime lord Jabba the Hutt. Luke offers to negotiate with Jabba, who rejects his offer and casts him into a pit to battle a rancor. When Luke kills the rancor, he, Han, and Chewbacca are sentenced to death in the sarlacc pit. Luke escapes with R2-D2's help, saving his friends and destroying Jabba's sail barge.
Luke returns to Dagobah, and learns from a dying Yoda that Vader is indeed his father. Luke then learns from Obi-Wan's spirit that he has a twin sister, whom he immediately realizes is princess Leia. Both Jedi Masters tell Luke that he must face Vader again to finish his training and save the galaxy, but he is disturbed by the idea of killing his own father.
Arriving on Endor as part of a Rebel commando squad, Luke surrenders to Vader in an attempt to bring his father back from the dark side of the Force. Vader brings Luke to the second Death Star orbiting around Endor, where his master, Emperor Palpatine, tries to tempt Luke to the dark side, revealing his plan to destroy the Rebel fleet. Luke lashes out at the Emperor with his lightsaber, but Vader blocks his strike, and father and son once again duel with each other. Luke regains control of his emotions until Vader senses that Luke has a sister, and threatens to turn her to the dark side if Luke will not submit. Luke snaps and overpowers Vader, severing his father's mechanical right hand. The Emperor orders Luke to kill Vader and take his place. Luke looks at his own bionic hand and realizes that he is on the verge of suffering his father's fate. He casts his lightsaber aside, declaring himself a Jedi.
Furious, the Emperor tortures Luke with Force lightning. In agony, Luke calls out to his father for help; unwilling to let his son die, Vader throws the Emperor down a reactor shaft to his death, but is mortally wounded by the Emperor's Force lightning in the process. As Rebel fighters head toward the second Death Star's main reactor, Luke removes Vader's mask and looks upon his father's real face for the first and last time. The redeemed Anakin Skywalker reassures Luke that there was good in him after all, and to tell his sister that he was right about him, before dying peacefully. On Endor, Luke burns his father's body on a funeral pyre, giving him a proper Jedi funeral. During the Rebels' victory celebrations on Endor, Luke sees his father's spirit appear alongside those of Obi-Wan and Yoda.
Prequel trilogy
Main article: Star Wars prequel trilogy
Revenge of the Sith (2005)
In the prequel film Revenge of the Sith (2005), during the waning days of the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Separatists, Senator Padmé Amidala, wife of Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, becomes pregnant with Luke and Leia. Anakin has a prophetic vision of Padmé dying in childbirth, and allows Chancellor Palpatine – secretly the Sith Lord Darth Sidious – to corrupt him to the dark side as Darth Vader.
After Vader uses the dark side to choke her, Padmé is taken to Polis Massa, where she gives birth to Luke and Leia and dies, having lost the will to live after Vader's betrayal. Obi-Wan and Yoda agree to separate the twins in order to protect them from the Sith and the newly created Galactic Empire. Obi-Wan takes Luke to the desert planet Tatooine, where he is adopted by Vader's stepbrother, Owen Lars, and his wife, Beru, while Leia is adopted by Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan. The infant Luke is portrayed by Aidan Barton, the son of Roger Barton, an editor of the film.[13]
Sequel trilogy
Main article: Star Wars sequel trilogy
The Force Awakens (2015)
Mark Hamill reprised the role of Luke in The Force Awakens (2015)
In the first installment of the sequel trilogy, The Force Awakens (2015), the opening crawl reveals that Luke Skywalker had mysteriously vanished some time in the 30 years after the destruction of the second Death Star. Luke went into hiding after his nephew and apprentice, Ben Solo, turned to the dark side and became Kylo Ren, a warlord of the tyrannical First Order and its leader, Snoke. When Ren killed all of his fellow apprentices and ushered in the fall of the New Republic, Luke felt responsible, and disappeared. At the end of the film, the Resistance, led by Leia, manage to reconstruct a map, which traces the location of the temple from the Empire's archives to his location, and he is subsequently found on the planet Ahch-To by the young scavenger, Rey, who presents him with the lightsaber previously wielded by both Luke and his father.
The Last Jedi (2017)
In The Last Jedi (2017), Luke throws the lightsaber away after Rey gives it to him. He then seals himself in his home, refusing to talk to Rey. However, when he sees Chewbacca without Han and that Rey came on the Millennium Falcon, he inquires about what has gone on with his family. Rey informs Luke about Solo's death at the hands of Kylo Ren and that the First Order has risen to rule the galaxy. Rey asks Luke to train her in the ways of the Force. Luke is initially reluctant to train Rey, telling her that it is time for the Jedi Order to end.
After some persuasion from R2-D2, however, Luke starts training Rey, but grows increasingly afraid of her power. Luke then tells Rey the history of the Jedi Order, how Darth Sidious rose to power and how the Jedi were partly responsible for his father's fall to the dark side. Luke also initially tells Rey that Ben was corrupted by Snoke, and destroyed the Jedi Temple he confronted his treasonous nephew. Ultimately, however, Luke tells Rey the truth: He had briefly considered killing the sleeping Ben after seeing a vision of the destruction he could cause, but immediately relented; Ben woke to see Luke with his lightsaber drawn and turned to the dark side because he felt betrayed. Upon learning this, Rey urges Luke to help her redeem Ben, but he refuses to participate in this nor help the Resistance. When Rey leaves, an embittered Luke tries to burn the Jedi temple, but fails. He is then visited by the spirit of Yoda, who assures Luke that he still has a purpose.
Luke appears on the planet Crait, as the Resistance are staging a standoff against the First Order, and he apologizes to Leia for allowing Ben to fall to the dark side. Luke steps in front of the First Order walkers, and unexpectedly survives an onslaught of blaster fire ordered by Ren. Ren charges at Luke in hand-to-hand combat, seemingly bisecting him with his lightsaber, but Luke remains unscathed; still on Ahch-To, Luke has sent a projection of himself to Crait, using the Force. This distraction allows the Resistance to escape the planet. Luke tells Kylo that he will not be the last Jedi before his projection disappears. On Ahch-To, Luke collapses then looks off in the horizon to see the planet's two suns setting before he becomes one with the Force and vanishes.
The Rise of Skywalker (2019)
Luke appears briefly in The Rise of Skywalker, the ninth and final chapter of the main series.[14] When Rey discovers her lineage as the resurrected Emperor Palpatine's granddaughter, she exiles herself on Ahch-To, just as Luke had. Meaning to isolate herself, she throws Luke's lightsaber towards the burning wreckage of Ren's TIE whisper, in which she had traveled to her new home. Luke appears as a Force spirit, and reprimands Rey for treating the lightsaber with disrespect. Luke then admits that he was wrong not to participate in the Resistance, and thanks Rey for helping him rediscover himself. Luke convinces Rey to not view herself as a Palpatine, but as the good person Leia saw her as when training her, and not to give up on her battle against the Sith. Luke lends Rey his old T-65B X-wing Red Five and tells Rey to combine his father's lightsaber with Leia's in her battle on Exegol. He also restrengthened Rey when she reached out to and heard the voices of the past Jedi to help her destroy Palpatine once and for all.
After Rey vanquishes Palpatine once and for all, she visits the moisture farm on Tatooine where Luke was raised. She buries Luke and Leia's lightsabers, revealing that she has constructed her own. A local asks Rey who she is. As Leia, who died earlier, and Luke appear as Force spirits, Rey names herself Rey Skywalker.
Television series
Luke appears in the animated Disney micro-series Star Wars Forces of Destiny (with Hamill reprising his role). The episode "The Path Ahead" details him training with Yoda on Dagobah.[15] He also appears in the episode "Traps and Tribulations", which takes place shortly after the Battle of Endor and shows him and Leia assisting the Ewoks in stopping a rampaging monster known as a Gorax.[16]
Luke appears in "Chapter 16: The Rescue", the season two finale of The Mandalorian, after Grogu contacted him via the Force in a previous episode. Luke arrives on Moff Gideon's cruiser and destroys all of the Dark Troopers, saving Grogu and his guardian, Din Djarin, as well as their companions. Luke then takes Grogu with him to train him as a Jedi, with Djarin's permission.[17]
Luke appears in the sixth episode, "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger", of the spin-off series The Book of Boba Fett. While training Grogu, he helps him remember some of his past, including his home at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant and the events of the Great Jedi Purge. Djarin comes to visit Grogu, but decides against it after speaking with Ahsoka Tano, not wanting to hinder his training; however, he gives Ahsoka a gift to deliver to Grogu: beskar chain mail forged by the Armorer. Ahsoka gives the chain mail to Luke, who confesses that he is unsure whether Grogu is fully committed to the Jedi path and that he does not know how to handle the matter. Following Ahsoka's advice to listen to his instincts, Luke decides to let Grogu choose his own destiny by asking him to choose between the chain mail and the lightsaber of his old master, Yoda.[18] In the seventh episode, "Chapter 7: In The Name of Honour", it is revealed that Grogu chose the chain mail, leading Luke to send him back to Djarin. He places him in his X-wing starfighter, which is then flown to Tatooine by R2-D2, where Grogu and Djarin are eventually reunited.[19]
Literature
Luke is the main character of the novel Heir to the Jedi and the junior novel The Legends of Luke Skywalker (the latter of which was adapted as a manga).[20] He is also a main character of the 2015 comic Star Wars, which takes place between the films of the original trilogy.[21]
Star Wars: Heir to the Jedi was announced as one of the first four canon novels to be released in 2014 and 2015.[22] Set between A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back, Heir to the Jedi chronicles the adventures of Luke as he continues to battle the Empire with his Rebel friends,[23] grows close with fellow Rebel Nakari Kelen, and begins to develop his Force abilities. The novel is written from the first-person perspective of Luke, and is only the second Star Wars novel to attempt this type of narrative voice.[d][23]
Star Wars: Shadow of the Sith is a novel set between Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens. The book follows Luke and Lando Calrissian on a mission to locate Exegol.[24]
Legends
See also: Star Wars expanded to other media
In April 2014, most of the licensed Star Wars novels and comics produced since the originating 1977 film Star Wars were rebranded by Lucasfilm as Star Wars Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise.[25][26][22] The Legends-branded novels, comic books and video games detail Luke's exploits following Return of the Jedi.[27]
Novels
In the novel The Truce at Bakura, set one day after the battle of Endor, Luke and his friend Wedge Antilles recover a message droid from the titular planet, which was being invaded by the Ssi-Ruuk. Luke commands a task force, turning back the enemy army. He also meets Dev Sibwarra, a Force-sensitive human who had been captured by the Ssi-Ruuk, who is killed in the battle after turning against his captors.[28]
In the novel The Courtship of Princess Leia, set four years after the Battle of Endor, Luke travels to the planet Dathomir. There, he discovers a group of Force-sensitive witches called the Witches of Dathomir, banded into two separate groups: a collective of benign, matriarchal clans; the one he is in contact with being the Singing Mountain Clan, and the witches who have turned to the dark side, called the Nightsisters. Discovering a prophecy in which it was told a Jedi would change the way of life on the land, Luke eventually realizes truly what the Force is for the first time in his life. While there, he destroys most of the Nightsisters (including their powerful leader, Gethzirion, and the galaxy's most powerful remaining warlord, Warlord Zsinj). Thanks to the help of the prophecy and witches, Luke recovers old Jedi records left by Yoda about 400 years prior. He decides to start a new Jedi Academy, something he has been trying to do for six months before the start of the novel by finding old Jedi records and archives.[29]
In the Thrawn trilogy, Luke meets former Emperor's Hand Mara Jade, who is bound by Palpatine's disembodied voice that repeatedly commands "You will kill Luke Skywalker". Mara Jade is working with her boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named Talon Karrde, who also plays a crucial role in this era. Although she was ready to fulfill that order to stop the voice, circumstances force her to keep him alive long enough to have him help escape a mutual danger. Despite her threats, Luke learns of the spell Mara is under and vows to free her from it. Meanwhile, the rest of the New Republic is fighting against Grand Admiral Thrawn, and thanks to Leia's help, he is eventually defeated, although several times Luke had to avoid getting captured by Thrawn or seduced by his ally, Joruus C'baoth. Eventually, he and Jade fight against Luke's clone, Luuke Skywalker, C'baoth's creation. During the fight, Mara Jade destroys the clone and, with Leia's help, destroys C'baoth. This entire time, C'baoth has been obsessed with "molding" Luke and Mara to serve him, perhaps due to the fact that the Spaarti cloning cylinders he was made from have a reputation of turning people insane later in life. Nonetheless, C'baoth is defeated by Mara along with Luuke, and Mara's acts silences her curse and completes her reconciliation with the Jedi, whom she later joins.[30]
In the Jedi Academy trilogy, Luke resigns his commission in the New Republic's starfighter corps to pursue his Jedi studies and rebuild the Jedi Order in the Massassi Temple on Yavin 4, a decision some anti-Jedi politicians use against him. Luke becomes the New Jedi Order's leader. His students in the ways of the Force include; Gantoris, Kam Solusar, Tionne, Streen, Cilghal, Kirana Ti and others. He is forced to contend with the spirit of ancient Sith Lord Exar Kun, who lures one of his most powerful students, Kyp Durron, to the dark side.
In the Hand of Thrawn Duology, Luke, now a Jedi Master, works again with Mara Jade, who has learned to better her Force knowledge since her training at Luke's Jedi Academy. He falls in love with her and they eventually marry. Later, in Edge of Victory: Rebirth, they have a son whom they name Ben, after Obi-Wan Kenobi's pseudonym.
In the New Jedi Order series, Luke creates a New Jedi Council. He idealises a new conclave, made up of Jedi, politicians and military officers. In Force Heretic: Remnant, he spearheads the mission into the Unknown Regions during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion to find the mysterious planet of Zonama Sekot, a planet that creates living starships. After the invasion is defeated with the help of the new Mandalorian Warriors, a Sekotian fleet and a Galactic Alliance-Imperial Remnant fleet, Luke leads the New Jedi Order on Denon, the temporary capital of the Galactic Alliance and the site of the newly rebuilt Jedi Temple on Coruscant. In The Swarm War, the New Jedi Order moves to Ossus, the site of Jedi temples and libraries that were mostly destroyed 4,000 years prior. Upon the Killik's invasion of Chiss space and the transformation of most of the Myrkr mission survivors into Killik Joiners, Luke determines that the Killik's collective mind is being unconsciously controlled by a hive called the Dark Nest. The Dark Nest is controlled by a former Nightsister named Lomi Plo, who became their Unseen Queen with her ability to become invisible by exploiting the doubts of inferiors.
One of the Myrkr mission survivors, Alema Rar, attempts to plant seeds of doubt in Luke's mind by suggesting that his wife, Mara, may be somehow responsible for the death of his mother, Padmé Amidala, which he almost believes because of Mara's previous role as the Emperor's Hand. This allows Lomi to escape from Luke, who discovers recordings of his father Force-choking his mother on Mustafar, his own birth, and his mother's death hidden inside R2-D2's memory drive. Because of this, he is able to overcome his doubts about Mara and defeat Lomi Plo in the final battle of the Swarm War, cutting her into four pieces.
Luke creates a New Jedi Council, and becomes the Grand Master of the New Jedi Order. He tells the Jedi to either follow his leadership, make the order their priority, or leave. Luke is also forced to exile the Padawans Tahiri, Lowbacca, and Tesar Sebatayne to Dagobah for divulging secret information to people outside the order.
In the Legacy of the Force series, Luke begins having visions of a figure cloaked in darkness destroying the galaxy and the Jedi. Luke is troubled that he has been unable to discern the identity of this figure, who seems to be much like Darth Vader. Complicating matters even more is the recent schism that has developed between Luke and his nephew, Jacen Solo. Already a tremendously powerful Jedi Knight, Jacen has begun adopting radical interpretations of the Force, causing a dramatic change in his personality. Luke fears that Jacen is pursuing the same path that ultimately led to Anakin Skywalker's fall to the dark side.
In Bloodlines, the situation worsens when Luke's son, Ben, becomes Jacen's apprentice. Luke must also battle his wife, who refuses to confront Jacen for fear of alienating Ben. In Tempest, Luke determines that the dark figure from his dreams is Lumiya, a former Emperor's Hand now known as the "Dark Lady of the Sith". When Mara is murdered in Sacrifice, Lumiya deceives Luke into believing that she killed her. They battle again, and Luke saves a weaponless Lumiya from falling to her death simply so that he can kill her himself. Luke returns to Coruscant where he is found by Ben, standing guard over Mara's body; upon speaking with his son, he realizes that Lumiya could not have killed her. Later in his private cabin, Luke breaks down over the death of his wife, knowing that her murderer is still at large. He does not realize that the killer is his own nephew, Jacen, who has now taken the Sith name Darth Caedus. In Revelation, Ben proves that Jacen killed Mara, but Luke is now reluctant to kill Jacen out of fear that he or his son will fall to the dark side in the process. The decision is taken out of his hands in Invincible, when Jaina kills Jacen in a final lightsaber duel.
In Fate of the Jedi novels, set about 40 years after the first film, Luke Skywalker, now in his early sixties, is deposed by the government from his position as Grand Master, and exiled from Coruscant. However, if he finds the reason of why Jacen Solo fell to the dark side, he can be allowed to return. Ben insists on coming with him. Together, father and son explore dangerous and little-known portions of the galaxy. Luke and Ben learn much about each other, about the Force, and about the great dangers threatening the Jedi. The great love the two surviving Skywalkers have for each other grows even greater as they repeatedly save each other's lives and explore the limits and powers and mysteries of the Force.
Luke Skywalker and the Shadows of Mindor
Luke Skywalker and the Shadows of Mindor is a standalone novel that chronicles the Battle of Mindor, a fictional event in the Star Wars expanded universe. The novel was written by Matthew Stover and released in December 2008.[31]
The novel is set shortly after Return of the Jedi and the novel Prophets of the Dark Side, with Luke Skywalker and the Rebel Alliance attempting to stop Lord Shadowspawn and his "shadow stormtroopers", culminating in the Battle of Mindor.[31] Matthew Stover has said on his personal weblog,[32]
Comic books
Luke Skywalker appears in the Marvel-published Star Wars comics adaptations of the original trilogy, as well as an ongoing series that ran from 1977 to 1986. When Dark Horse acquired the license two years later, he appeared in numerous projects based on the franchise as well. In Star Wars: Legacy, set 125 years after the events of the original films, Luke appears as a spirit in the Force to his descendant Cade Skywalker and persuades him to once again become a Jedi in order to defeat the evil Darth Krayt and his burgeoning Sith Empire.
Characterization
Psychoanalytic
Each of the Star Wars characters instantiates one of the archetypes in Joseph Campbell's hero's journey,[33] with Luke Skywalker filling the hero archetype.[34] As such, he is a relatable protagonist who encounters the basic struggle between good and evil in the same way as other heroic figures such as Harry Potter, Bilbo Baggins, and Jesus Christ. Luke's central dilemma is the ongoing war between good and evil, both externally and internally.
Religious
Some argue that Luke mirrors fundamental values of Christianity and Abrahamic religion; Luke's journey is often compared to that of Jesus Christ. Scholars argue that Luke is a Christ-like figure, while Yoda represents a god, and Darth Vader represents the temptations of evil. Luke's struggle between good and evil is contrasted with that of his father, Anakin Skywalker, in a way that represents the story of the Prodigal Son.[35]
Reception
In regards to Luke's portrayal in The Last Jedi, many fans expressed disappointment in how he was depicted "as a grumpy old man whose failures had driven him into hiding" and the actions the character takes in contributing to Kylo Ren's backstory, a stark departure in how Luke was characterized in the original trilogy.[36] Hamill originally stated that he "pretty much fundamentally [disagreed] with every choice [The Last Jedi director Rian Johnson] made for this character," but that he had the utmost respect for Johnson and was willing to do his part to realize Johnson's vision.[37]
See also
Skywalker family
Notes
^ In addition to Mark Hamill, voice performers include Eric Bauza, Bob Bergen, Joshua Fardon and Lloyd Floyd.
^ The film was originally titled Star Wars, then later retitled Star Wars: Episode IV—A New Hope.
^ Phil Szostak notes that Luke's lightsaber design reflects that of Obi-Wan Kenobi's.[12]
^ The first was Michael A. Stackpole's 1997 Expanded Universe novel, I, Jedi.
References
^ "Skywalker, Luke". Star Wars Databank. StarWars.com. Archived from the original on September 7, 2011. Retrieved April 3, 2011.
'^ Lucas, George (2004). The Characters of 'Star Wars, Star Wars Trilogy DVD. 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment. Event occurs at 3:45.
^ Serratore, Angela (July 25, 2019). "What You Need to Know About the Manson Family Murders". Smithsonian Magazine. Archived from the original on August 18, 2020. Retrieved May 8, 2024.
^ Hedash, Kara (February 18, 2020). "Star Wars: Here's Why George Lucas Changed Luke Skywalker's Original Name". ScreenRant. Archived from the original on November 5, 2022. Retrieved May 8, 2024.
^ Rinzler 2008, p. 191.
^ Lue, Alex (July 6, 2021). "How Mark Hamill's Near-Fatal Wreck Completely Changed 'Star Wars'". Inside the Magic. Retrieved May 19, 2024.
^ Cronin, Brian (August 25, 2015). "Was the Wampa Attack in Empire Strikes Back Created to Explain Mark Hamill's Facial Injuries?". Huffington Post. Archived from the original on February 18, 2017. Retrieved December 16, 2017.
^ Villarreal, Mike (March 10, 2014). "Review: Jump to lightspeed with Topps' Star Wars radio drama". Nerd Reactor. Archived from the original on April 22, 2019. Retrieved April 22, 2019.
^ Davis, Lauren (November 26, 2014). "Star Wars Deleted Scenes Reveal The Utter Disaster That Could Have Been". io9. Archived from the original on April 22, 2019. Retrieved April 22, 2019.
^ Slavicsek, Bill (1994). A Guide to the Star Wars Universe (2nd ed.). Del Rey. p. 285. ISBN 0-345-38625-6.
^ Return of the Jedi (laserdisc). Back cover: CBS/FOX. 1986.
^ Szostak, Phil (2017). The Art of Star Wars: The Last Jedi. New York City: Abrams Books. p. 15. ISBN 9781419727054.
^ De Lange, Sander (December 16, 2014). "Star Wars, A Family Affair". StarWars.com. Archived from the original on September 9, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.
^ Perry, Spencer (July 27, 2018). "BREAKING: Star Wars: Episode IX Cast Officially Announced!". Comingsoon.net. Archived from the original on May 3, 2020. Retrieved July 27, 2018.
^ Shepherd, Jack (March 20, 2018). "Star Wars: Mark Hamill returns as Luke Skywalker for Forces of Destiny short". The Independent. London, England: Independent Print Ltd. Archived from the original on April 18, 2018. Retrieved May 28, 2018.
^ Jones, Camden (March 8, 2020). "Star Wars' Awful Ewoks Movies Start Becoming Canon In Battlefront 2". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on September 26, 2021. Retrieved September 25, 2021.
^ Hunt, James (December 18, 2020). "Luke Skywalker In The Mandalorian Explained: Jedi Order & Baby Yoda's Future". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on September 26, 2021. Retrieved September 25, 2021.
^ Russell, Bradley (February 2, 2022). "How The Book of Boba Fett episode 6 ending sets up The Mandalorian season 3". GamesRadar+. Archived from the original on February 8, 2022. Retrieved February 3, 2022.
^ Dougherty, Matt (February 8, 2022). "Grogu's Choice in The Book of Boba Fett Could Shape the Future of Star Wars". IGN. Archived from the original on February 10, 2022. Retrieved February 11, 2022.
^ "TheForce.net: Star Wars: The Legends Of Luke Skywalker - The Manga Coming Early 2020". TheForce.net. October 7, 2019. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.
^ McMillan, Graeme (October 4, 2019). "Marvel to Relaunch 'Star Wars' Comic With Time Jump". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 5, 2019. Retrieved October 6, 2019.
^ a b "Disney and Random House announce relaunch of Star Wars Adult Fiction line". StarWars.com. April 25, 2014. Archived from the original on May 14, 2016. Retrieved May 26, 2016.
^ a b Schedeen, Jesse (March 6, 2015). "Star Wars: Heir to the Jedi Review". IGN. San Francisco, California: j2 Global. Archived from the original on August 16, 2016. Retrieved May 27, 2016.
^ "New Books Starring Luke and Lando, Obi-Wan and Anakin, and More Revealed - Exclusive". StarWars.com. October 7, 2021. Archived from the original on June 25, 2022. Retrieved May 15, 2022.
^ McMilian, Graeme (April 25, 2014). "Lucasfilm Unveils New Plans for Star Wars Expanded Universe". The Hollywood Reporter. Los Angeles, California: Eldridge Industries. Archived from the original on April 29, 2016. Retrieved May 26, 2016.
^ "The Legendary Star Wars Expanded Universe Turns a New Page". StarWars.com. April 25, 2014. Archived from the original on September 10, 2016. Retrieved May 26, 2016.
^ Harth, David (February 18, 2021). "Star Wars: 10 Ways Luke Skywalker Is Different In Legends". Comic Book Resources. Archived from the original on September 26, 2021. Retrieved September 25, 2021.
^ "The Legendary Star Wars Expanded Universe Turns a New Page". StarWars.com. April 25, 2014. Archived from the original on September 10, 2016. Retrieved May 26, 2016.
^ Piakoski, R. Thomas (May 21, 1994). "'Star Wars' lives with 'Princess Leia' novel". Milwaukee Sentinel. Archived from the original on October 12, 2014. Retrieved November 18, 2013.
^ Rosenberg, Adam (December 6, 2008). "The Worst Star Wars Expanded Universe Characters". UGO.com. Archived from the original on January 10, 2012.
^ a b "Stover To Pen Luke Skywalker Novel". Starwars.com. February 21, 2007. Archived from the original on October 11, 2007. Retrieved November 8, 2007.
^ Stover, Matthew (February 25, 2007). "studioMWS - Sunday, February 25". Archived from the original on November 17, 2007. Retrieved March 12, 2007.
^ Miller, Martin (Summer 1981). "The Appeal of Star Wars: A psychoanalytic view". American Imago. 38 (2). Baltimore, Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press: 203–220.
^ Scheller, Rachel (May 4, 2017). "Exploring Star Wars and the Hero's Journey". Writer's Digest. Cincinnati, Ohio: F+W Media. Archived from the original on January 27, 2019. Retrieved January 27, 2019.
^ Cohen, Michael Howard (2002). "Fraud, Ego, and Abuse of Spiritual Power". Future Medicine: Ethical Dilemmas, Regulatory Challenges, and Therapeutic Pathways to Health Care and Healing in Human Transformation. Ann Arbor, Michigan: University of Michigan Press. pp. 213–248. ISBN 978-0472088898.
^ Armitage, Hugh (April 4, 2018). "Mark Hamill says Luke Skywalker was used as a "plot device" in Star Wars: The Last Jedi". Digital Spy. Archived from the original on November 22, 2018. Retrieved June 5, 2018.
^ Kamp, David (May 25, 2017). "Star Wars Nerds, Mark Hamill Is One of You". Vanity Fair. Archived from the original on August 8, 2021. Retrieved June 5, 2018.
Works cited
Rinzler, J.W. (2007). The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film (eBook v3.1 ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 978-0-345-54286-1.
Rinzler, J.W. (2008). The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film (2008 ed.). Ebury Press. ISBN 978-0-09-192499-7.
Rinzler, J.W. (2010). The Making of The Empire Strikes Back (eBook v3.1 ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 978-0-345-54336-3.
Further reading
Dunk, Steve (December 28, 2017). "A Hero's Journey - Luke Skywalker". TheForce.net. Retrieved October 6, 2019.
External links
Speculative fiction portalFilm portal
Luke Skywalker in the StarWars.com Databank
Luke Skywalker on Wookieepedia, a Star Wars wiki
Luke Skywalker on IMDb
Luke Skywalker and the Shadows of Mindor on Wookieepedia, a Star Wars wiki
vteStar Wars original trilogyFilmsTheatrical
Star Wars (1977)
The Empire Strikes Back (1980)
Return of the Jedi (1983)
Television
Holiday Special (1978)
Caravan of Courage (1984)
The Battle for Endor (1985)
Characters
Admiral Ackbar
Admiral Piett
Bib Fortuna
Boba Fett
C-3PO
Chewbacca
Darth Vader
R2-D2
Grand Moff Tarkin
Greedo
Han Solo
Jabba the Hutt
Lando Calrissian
Princess Leia Organa
Luke Skywalker
Mon Mothma
Nien Nunb
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Emperor Palpatine
Wedge Antilles
Wicket
Yoda
Novelizations
Star Wars: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker
The Empire Strikes Back
Return of the Jedi
Related novels
Splinter of the Mind's Eye
Soundtracks
Star Wars
"Main Title"
The Empire Strikes Back
"The Imperial March"
Return of the Jedi
"Ewok Celebration"
Video gamesEpisode IV
Star Wars (1983)
Star Wars (1987)
Star Wars (1991)
Super Star Wars (1992)
Episode V
The Empire Strikes Back (1982)
The Empire Strikes Back (1985)
The Empire Strikes Back (1992)
Super Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back (1993)
Episode VI
Return of the Jedi: Death Star Battle (1983)
Return of the Jedi: Ewok Adventure (cancelled)
Return of the Jedi (1984)
Super Star Wars: Return of the Jedi (1994)
Other
Jedi Arena (1983)
Star Wars Arcade (1993)
Yoda Stories (1997)
Star Wars Trilogy Arcade (1998)
Flight of the Falcon (2003)
Star Wars Trilogy: Apprentice of the Force (2004)
Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy (2006)
vteStar Wars sequel trilogyFilms
The Force Awakens (2015)
accolades
box office records
The Last Jedi (2017)
The Rise of Skywalker (2019)
Duel of the Fates
Series
The Resistance Rises (2016)
Resistance (2018–2020)
Specials
The Holiday Special (2020)
Terrifying Tales (2021)
Summer Vacation (2022)
CharactersResistance
Admiral Ackbar
BB-8
C-3PO
Chewbacca
Finn (FN-2187)
General Leia Organa
Han Solo
Lando Calrissian
Maz Kanata
Nien Nunb
Poe Dameron
R2-D2
Rose Tico
Vice-Admiral Holdo
Wedge Antilles
First Order
General Hux
Captain Phasma
Supreme Leader Kylo Ren / Ben Solo
Emperor Palpatine / Darth Sidious
Supreme Leader Snoke
Jedi Order
Kanan Jarrus
Qui-Gon Jinn
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Rey
Anakin Skywalker
Luke Skywalker
Ahsoka Tano
Mace Windu
Yoda
Soundtracks
The Force Awakens
The Last Jedi
The Rise of Skywalker
Novelizations
The Force Awakens (2015)
Video games
Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015)
Battlefront II DLCs (2017–2020)
Inspired media
The Love Hypothesis (2021)
Robot Chicken Season 11 (2021–2022)
vteThe MandalorianEpisodesSeason 1
"Chapter 1: The Mandalorian"
"Chapter 2: The Child"
"Chapter 3: The Sin"
"Chapter 4: Sanctuary"
"Chapter 5: The Gunslinger"
"Chapter 6: The Prisoner"
"Chapter 7: The Reckoning"
"Chapter 8: Redemption"
Season 2
"Chapter 9: The Marshal"
"Chapter 10: The Passenger"
"Chapter 11: The Heiress"
"Chapter 12: The Siege"
"Chapter 13: The Jedi"
"Chapter 14: The Tragedy"
"Chapter 15: The Believer"
"Chapter 16: The Rescue"
Season 3
"Chapter 17: The Apostate"
"Chapter 18: The Mines of Mandalore"
"Chapter 19: The Convert"
"Chapter 20: The Foundling"
"Chapter 21: The Pirate"
"Chapter 22: Guns for Hire"
"Chapter 23: The Spies"
"Chapter 24: The Return"
CharactersOriginal
The Armorer
The Client
Din Djarin / The Mandalorian
Cara Dune
Moff Gideon
Grogu
IG-11
Greef Karga
Kuiil
Migs Mayfeld
Fennec Shand
Paz Vizsla
Returning
Boba Fett
Bib Fortuna
Bo-Katan Kryze
R2-D2
Luke Skywalker
Ahsoka Tano
Cobb Vanth
Spin-offs
The Book of Boba Fett
Ahsoka
Skeleton Crew
See also
Accolades
Star Wars
Mandalorians
Star Wars original trilogy
Fortnite Battle Royale
 Category
vteThe Book of Boba FettCharactersMain
Boba Fett
Fennec Shand
Din Djarin / The Mandalorian
Grogu
Recurring
Black Krrsantan
The Armorer
Paz Vizsla
Peli Motto
Cobb Vanth
R2-D2
Luke Skywalker
Ahsoka Tano
Cad Bane
Related
The Mandalorian
Ahsoka
See also
Star Wars
Star Wars Trilogy
Fortnite Battle Royale
 Category
vteObi-Wan KenobiEpisodes
"Part I"
"Part II"
"Part III"
"Part IV"
"Part V"
"Part VI"
CharactersMain
Obi-Wan/Ben Kenobi
Anakin Skywalker / Darth Vader
Princess Leia Organa
Guest
Emperor Sheev Palpatine / Darth Sidious
Luke Skywalker
C-3PO
Qui-Gon Jinn
Clone troopers
Concepts
Clone Wars
Galactic Empire
Tatooine
See also
Star Wars
Star Wars prequel trilogy
Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones (2002)
Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (2005)
Soundtrack
The Patterson Cut
 Category
vteFictional universe of Star WarsConcepts
The Force
Architecture
Clone Wars
Languages
Physics
CharactersFilms
Admiral Ackbar
Padmé Amidala
Cassian Andor
Wedge Antilles
BB-8
Tobias Beckett
Jar Jar Binks
C-3PO
Lando Calrissian
Chewbacca
Poe Dameron
Count Dooku / Darth Tyranus
Jyn Erso
Boba Fett
Jango Fett
Finn (FN-2187)
Bib Fortuna
Saw Gerrera
Greedo
General Grievous
Vice-Admiral Holdo
Jabba the Hutt
General Hux
Qui-Gon Jinn
K-2SO
Maz Kanata
Obi-Wan Kenobi
Orson Krennic
Darth Maul
Mon Mothma
Nien Nunb
Leia Organa
Sheev Palpatine / Darth Sidious
Captain Phasma
Admiral Piett
Qi'ra
R2-D2
Kylo Ren / Ben Solo
Rey
Anakin Skywalker / Darth Vader
Luke Skywalker
Supreme Leader Snoke
Han Solo
Grand Moff Tarkin
Rose Tico
Quinlan Vos
Wicket W. Warrick
Watto
Mace Windu
Yoda
Televisionseries
The Armorer
Cad Bane
Ezra Bridger
The Client
Cara Dune
Moff Gideon
Din Grogu
IG-11
Kanan Jarrus / Caleb Dume
Greef Karga
Bo-Katan Kryze
Kuiil
The Mandalorian / Din Djarin
Migs Mayfeld
Captain Rex / CT-7567
Fennec Shand
Hera Syndulla
Ahsoka Tano
Asajj Ventress
Paz Vizsla
Sabine Wren
Video games
HK-47 / B-1 (Mister Bones)
Cal Kestis
Iden Versio
Other
Doctor Aphra
Darth Bane
Black Krrsantan
Darth Plagueis
Ren
Grand Admiral Thrawn / Mitth'raw'nuruodo
Cobb Vanth
LegendsBooks
Mara Jade
Jacen Solo / Darth Caedus
Tag and Bink
Video games
Juhani
Kreia / Darth Traya
Vette / Ce'na
Lists
The Clone Wars
Rebels
The Mandalorian
The Book of Boba Fett
Legends
Knights of the Old Republic
Groups
Skywalker family
Max Rebo Band
Military groups
Clone troopers
Stormtroopers
OrganizationsRepublican factions
Jedi
Galactic Republic
High Republic
Rebel Alliance
Resistance
Imperialist factions
Sith
Galactic Empire
First Order
Independent factions
Confederacy of Independent Systems
Guardians of the Whills
Mandalorians
Planetsand moons
Alderaan
Coruscant
Dagobah
Endor
Hoth
Jakku
Mustafar
Naboo
Tatooine
Mos Eisley
Yavin
CreaturesSapient species
A–E
Ewok
F–J
Hutt
K–O
P–T
Tusken Raiders
U–Z
Wookiee
Other creatures
Bantha
Droid
Sarlacc
TechnologyWeapons
Blaster
Lightsaber
Terrestrial vehicles
Landspeeder
Sandcrawler
Speeder bike
Walker
Starfighters
A-wing
X-wing
Y-wing
TIE fighter
Spacecraft
Death Star
Millennium Falcon
Star Destroyer
Tantive IV
Games
Dejarik
Sabacc
 Category
Authority control databases International
FAST
VIAF
National
Israel
United States
Australia
Poland
Categories: Adoptee characters in filmsCharacters created by George LucasFictional amputeesFictional characters with precognitionFictional commandersFictional farmersFictional fighter pilotsFictional generalsFictional ghostsFictional hermitsFictional knightsFictional martial arts trainersFictional military lieutenantsFictional military personnel in filmsFictional revolutionariesFictional space pilotsFictional twinsFictional war veteransFilm characters introduced in 1977Male characters in filmStar Wars comics charactersStar Wars literary charactersStar Wars Jedi charactersStar Wars Skywalker Saga charactersStar Wars television charactersThe Book of Boba Fett charactersThe Mandalorian charactersHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesUse American English from August 2019All Wikipedia articles written in American EnglishUse mdy dates from October 2023Articles using Infobox character with multiple unlabeled fieldsArticles with FAST identifiersArticles with VIAF identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NLA identifiersArticles with PLWABN identifiers
 This page was last edited on 20 May 2024, at 05:54 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Toggle limited content width